An introduction to 2 Chronicles.
First and Second Chronicles
were originally one volume,
which was later divided into two.
The writer was Ezra,
an Aaronic priest and copyist,
who completed the volume about 460 B.C.E.
The writing deals almost entirely
with the kingdom of Judah.
Second Chronicles covers
a period of 500 years,
from the start of Solomon’s reign
in 1037 B.C.E.
to Persian King Cyrus’ decree
of 537 B.C.E.
to rebuild the house of Jehovah
in Jerusalem.
Chapters 1 to 9 discuss
the reign of King Solomon.
In chapter 1,
Jehovah gives Solomon extraordinary wisdom
so that he can judge the people well.
Chapters 2 to 7 cover
Solomon’s preparations for the temple
—its utensils and furnishings
as well as its construction and inauguration.
In chapter 9,
the queen of Sheba visits Solomon
and is amazed at his wisdom.
After Solomon’s 40-year reign,
his son Rehoboam becomes king.
In the next chapter,
ten tribes revolt against Rehoboam
and form the northern kingdom of Israel.
Chapters 17 to 20 discuss King Jehoshaphat,
who does what is right in Jehovah’s eyes.
He even sends out princes and Levites
to teach God’s Law.
In chapter 20,
Jehoshaphat prays for help
when facing the combined forces
of Ammon, Moab,
and the mountainous region of Seir.
In answer to the king’s prayer,
God causes the invaders
to slaughter each other.
In chapter 22,
wicked Queen Athaliah destroys
the “royal line of the house of Judah”
except for the child Jehoash.
He is saved by Jehoshabeath
and her husband, High Priest Jehoiada.
In chapters 23 and 24,
Jehoash is made king at age seven
and Athaliah is put to death.
Under the good influence
of High Priest Jehoiada,
Jehoash does what is right in God’s eyes,
even renovating the temple.
But after Jehoiada dies,
Jehoash abandons true worship.
When Jehoiada’s son rebukes the king,
Jehoash has him put to death.
In chapter 26,
Uzziah becomes king.
At first,
he does what is right in God’s eyes,
but later he becomes haughty.
He even tries to burn incense in the temple
—a responsibility reserved for the priests.
Jehovah strikes Uzziah with leprosy.
Chapters 29 to 32 discuss
the reign of King Hezekiah,
who zealously promotes true worship
all his life.
During Hezekiah’s reign,
Assyrian King Sennacherib invades Judah
and threatens Jerusalem.
But Jehovah’s angel wipes out
“every mighty warrior, leader, and chief”
in the Assyrian camp.
Chapter 33
discusses the 55-year reign of King Manasseh,
who does “on a grand scale
what [is] bad in Jehovah’s eyes.”
Did you know?
Although King Manasseh later repented,
his depravity sent Judah
into the moral and spiritual tailspin
that led to its exile.
Chapters 34 and 35 discuss the reign
of King Josiah.
Eight years old when he becomes king,
he remains firm for true worship.
He even embarks
on a sweeping campaign against idolatry.
Chapter 36 discusses
the last four kings of Judah
—Jehoahaz,
Jehoiakim,
Jehoiachin,
and Zedekiah.
All disobey Jehovah.
Despite the earlier efforts
of the good kings,
Judah continues to decline into apostasy.
So Jehovah allows the Babylonians
to invade the land and attack Jerusalem.
They destroy the city
and take the people into exile.
Ezra concludes 2 Chronicles
by leaping ahead 70 years
to the reign of Persian King Cyrus.
In a historic decree,
Cyrus frees the Jews,
telling them to rebuild the house of Jehovah
in Jerusalem.
As you read 2 Chronicles,
learn from the examples of the kings
(good and bad),
see how Jehovah blessed those who loved him,
and note how he preserved
the royal line of David,
which later produced the Messiah,
the King of God’s Kingdom.